mercury-operator/README.md, before:

# Mercury Operator (Beta)
## Prerequisites:

- Kafka operator installed (minimum strimzi version 0.26.0)

- Camel-K operator installed (version 1.7.0)

- A ConfigMap per service domain that exposes an http route
(with the name integration-<service-domain-name>-http e.g integration-customer-offer-http)
containing definitions of camel routes(e.g directs.yaml, grpc.yaml, openapi.json)

- A namespace named mercury should be created if it doesn't already exist.

## Installation

The operator will be created in the mercury namespace.

To install the operator run:

```shell
kubectl create -f ./install/mercury-operator.yml
```

## Functionality:
This operator is the one responsible for the deployment of the Mercury clusters by creating the necessary objects.
* On Service Domain Cluster object creation the operator will create a Role, a RoleBinding and a Kafka broker in case they do not exist already.
* Upon the successful creation of the Kafka broker, its url will be displayed in the Service Domain Cluster status object.
* On Service Domain object creation the operator will create a ServiceAccount, a Deployment, a Service, a Kafka Topic and a Camel K Integration in case they do not exist already.
* On Service Domain object creation if the expose parameter list has an http value in it, it will create an http Route.
* On Kafka Topic successful creation, its name will be displayed in the Service Domain status.

![Mercury Operator System](images/mercury-operator.png)

The Operator is Watching 2 kinds of entities:

##### Service Domain Cluster
The service domain cluster custom resource represents a cluster of service domains with a Kafka broker deployment.
E.g.
```yaml
apiVersion: mercury.redhat.io/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceDomainCluster
metadata:
  name: service-domain-cluster
  labels:
    service-domain-cluster: service-domain-cluster
```

A cluster of service domains consists of a single service domain cluster cr.
To create a service domain cluster run the following command
```shell
kubectl create -f service-domain-cluster.yaml
```

##### Service Domain
The service domain custom resource represents a service, a gRPC service will be created by default for inter service domain communication. 
If external access is required then use the expose parameter.
```yaml
apiVersion: mercury.redhat.io/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceDomain
metadata:
  name: customer-offer
  labels:
    service-domain: customer-offer
spec:
  businessImage: quay.io/ecosystem-appeng/customer-offer-example:1.0.1
  serviceDomainCluster: service-domain-cluster
  type: CustomerOffer
  expose:
    - http
```
* businessImage - the image to create the service container from.
* serviceDomainCluster - the name of the cluster this service domain is a part of.
* type - the type of the service domain.
* expose - a list of ways this service domain is exposed, currently we support only http, it will create a http route 

To create a service domain run the following command
```shell
kubectl create -f customer-offer-service-domain.yaml
```

When exposing an http endpoint for a SD, it is mandatory that
a config map with the following name exists: integration-<service-domain-name-in-lower-case-seperated-by-hyphen>-http.

It has two mandatory properties and one optional:
* directs.yaml (mandatory) - The yaml of the specific SD, can be found under integrations/camel-k/<sd-name>
* grpc.yaml (mandatory) - The yaml containing the grpc handling in mercury, can be found under integrations/camel-k/common-integrations
* openapi.json (optional) - The SD BIAN OpenAPI yaml, can be found under integrations/camel-k/<sd-name>
  
*Note: openapi.json is mandatory only when the directs.yaml depends on the open-api trait*

*An example:*
```yaml
# camel-k: open-api=CustomerOffer.json
```

An example of how to create a config map:

```shell
kubectl create configmap integration-customer-offer-http --from-file=directs.yaml=customer-offer-direct.yaml --from-file=grpc.yaml=grpc.yaml --from-file=openapi.json=CustomerOffer.json
```

Commit message:

Migration v10 (#94)
Migrate mercury framework to semantic APIs V10

Signed-off-by: ruromero <rromerom@redhat.com>

Co-authored-by: Ilona Shishov <Ilona.Shishov@gmail.com>

mercury-operator/README.md, after:

# Mercury Operator (Beta)
## Prerequisites:

- Kafka operator installed (minimum strimzi version 0.26.0)

- Camel-K operator installed (version 1.7.0)

- A ConfigMap per service domain that exposes an http route
(with the name integration-<service-domain-name>-http e.g integration-customer-offer-http)
containing definitions of camel routes(e.g directs.yaml, grpc.yaml, openapi.json)

- A namespace named mercury should be created if it doesn't already exist.

## Installation

The operator will be created in the mercury namespace.

To install the operator run:

```shell
kubectl create -f ./install/mercury-operator.yml
```

## Functionality:
This operator is the one responsible for the deployment of the Mercury clusters by creating the necessary objects.
* On Service Domain Cluster object creation the operator will create a Role, a RoleBinding and a Kafka broker in case they do not exist already.
* Upon the successful creation of the Kafka broker, its url will be displayed in the Service Domain Cluster status object.
* On Service Domain object creation the operator will create a ServiceAccount, a Deployment, a Service, a Kafka Topic and a Camel K Integration in case they do not exist already.
* On Service Domain object creation if the expose parameter list has an http value in it, it will create an http Route.
* On Kafka Topic successful creation, its name will be displayed in the Service Domain status.

![Mercury Operator System](images/mercury-operator.png)

The Operator is Watching 2 kinds of entities:

##### Service Domain Cluster
The service domain cluster custom resource represents a cluster of service domains with a Kafka broker deployment.
E.g.
```yaml
apiVersion: mercury.redhat.io/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceDomainCluster
metadata:
  name: service-domain-cluster
  labels:
    service-domain-cluster: service-domain-cluster
```

A cluster of service domains consists of a single service domain cluster cr.
To create a service domain cluster run the following command
```shell
kubectl create -f service-domain-cluster.yaml
```

##### Service Domain
The service domain custom resource represents a service, a gRPC service will be created by default for inter service domain communication. 
If external access is required then use the expose parameter.
```yaml
apiVersion: mercury.redhat.io/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceDomain
metadata:
  name: customer-offer
  labels:
    service-domain: customer-offer
spec:
  businessImage: quay.io/ecosystem-appeng/customer-offer-example:1.0.1
  serviceDomainCluster: service-domain-cluster
  type: CustomerOffer
  expose:
    - http
```
* businessImage - the image to create the service container from.
* serviceDomainCluster - the name of the cluster this service domain is a part of.
* type - the type of the service domain.
* expose - a list of ways this service domain is exposed, currently we support only http, it will create a http route 

To create a service domain run the following command
```shell
kubectl create -f customer-offer-service-domain.yaml
```

When exposing a http endpoint for a SD, it is mandatory that a config map with the OpenApi spec
exists. The expected name is `<service-domain-name-in-lower-case-seperated-by-hyphen>-openapi`. It can be created
as follows:

```shell
kubectl create configmap customer-credit-rating-openapi --from-file=CustomerCreditRating.json
```

For the Camel-K routes configuration it is required to also create a config map containing the direct routes
from the generated OpenAPI to the GRPC service. This route definitions are available in the
[integrations](../integrations/camel-k) folder.

They include a mandatory property called `directs.yaml` with the routes definitions.

An example of how to create a config map:

```shell
kubectl create configmap integration-customer-offer-http --from-file=directs.yaml=customer-offer-direct.yaml
```
