demo/README.md, before:


# Demo Overview

The customer goes through the necessary basic identification, authentication, and authorization checks. They are already flagged as a disaster victim and this detail is used in the contact routing decision. An assisted servicing session is initiated and the contact routed to a CSR trained in disaster relief. The Customer Service Representative (CSR) gets the details of their active case as background. 

The customer explains the problem – they are trying to buy a replacement phone in the shop and mistakenly thought they could pay using the on-line banking application, but they need their card details and they have all been lost (she is getting replacements). The CSR suggests setting up an E-Wallet that will download all the card details – including the new one specifically set up for their disaster account. 

The customer agrees and they start the e-wallet application process. In order to issue the card details, a higher level of authentication is needed and the CSR guides the customer through answering additional security questions to raise the contact authentication level as needed.

Commit message:

add description of the folder to README

demo/README.md, after:

# Demo Overview

This is a reference implementation of the BIAN service domains in the scope of Project Mercury's disaster relief demo scenario. The primary use case is a new product offering activation in the Customer Profile. 

# Scenario Brief Description

The customer goes through the necessary basic identification, authentication, and authorization checks. They are already flagged as a disaster victim and this detail is used in the contact routing decision. An assisted servicing session is initiated and the contact routed to a CSR trained in disaster relief. The Customer Service Representative (CSR) gets the details of their active case as background. 

The customer explains the problem – they are trying to buy a replacement phone in the shop and mistakenly thought they could pay using the on-line banking application, but they need their card details and they have all been lost (she is getting replacements). The CSR suggests setting up an E-Wallet that will download all the card details – including the new one specifically set up for their disaster account. 

The customer agrees and they start the e-wallet application process. In order to issue the card details, a higher level of authentication is needed and the CSR guides the customer through answering additional security questions to raise the contact authentication level as needed.
